last time I showed you how to
successfully calibrate your auto guider
in this video I'm going to show you how
to start an auto guided session and what
successful auto guiding should look like
we begin with a full-frame exposure from
the guider camera of four seconds this
is long enough to provide us with more
than a few stars to choose from and to
smooth out the effects of seeing I
recommend picking your own guide star on
a noisy guide camera without a shudder
for taking auto darks hot pixels may be
a problem and this problem is trivial to
get around by simply hand picking a good
candidate guide star yourself make sure
you do not pick a guide star that is too
bright and saturated here I've located a
good candidate and I'll draw a sub frame
around it and take another exposure to
inspect the field and double check for
saturated pixels
this looks like a good candidate
GuideStar and i'll select this star for
auto guiding by double-clicking it and
then pressing the auto guide button when
guiding the small subframe will be
automatically placed around the guide
star it may not be too pretty especially
if you're using an 8 bit guide camera
but you can adjust the appearance of the
star to your own taste with the
histogram tool the display of the guide
star does not affect guiding accuracy
and this is purely a cosmetic tweak to
really evaluate how effective your
guiding is you need to display the
graphs dialog this shows four important
metrics for guiding quality first is a
3d display of your guide star intensity
a scatter graph shows 2d corrections in
real time and a nice tight gathering
around the center is ideal relative
intensity is shown by the green bar and
finally a log of the X&Y Corrections is
shown to further monitor the stability
of your Guiding over time in each
individual axis
here's an example of almost textbook
guiding with 20-minute subs in this case
I had chosen five-second exposures on
the guide star and a three-second delay
between guide exposures we don't want
bouncy guide stars and five seconds
smoothes out the scene an additional
delay ensures that I'm only making
gradual and occasional bumps to a mount
that is already tracking well we have a
nice symmetrical guide star that shows
an excellent profile in the 3d graph
display with a signal well above the
surrounding pixels the scatter graph
shows a little up-and-down oscillation
that is occurring which is more clearly
shown in the y-axis log graph here this
sinusoidal pattern is typical in right
ascension and is nothing more than the
periodic error of the mount being guided
out
the top log shows a consistent push in
one direction because of a drift in
declination this is due to a slight
polar misalignment basically the auto
guiding is doing its job for best
results
guiding corrections should really be
small gradual adjustments to the mount
in my settings I have the minimum
movement set to 0.1 arc seconds and the
maximum movement to one arc second I'm
saying unless it's at least 0.1 arc
seconds don't make a correction and I'm
saying don't move more than one whole
arc second at a time these timid
settings keep the guider from trying to
move them out all around chasing the
scintillating star due to poor seeing
conditions
I'm also differing between exposures in
this example I've selected a one pixel
dithering guide camera pixels and I've
set the settle threshold to point three
pixels which for the large scale at
which I'm shooting here is sufficient
you can see here the previous exposure
has just completed and the dealer
operation has begun the guide er sees
the dither as one pixel error and will
attempt to correct this by moving the
guide star to its new location this will
take a few exposures in this example
because recall I told the guide camera
not to make corrections exceeding one
arc seconds you could spend a lot of
time fine-tuning these parameters for
your particular mount and optic choices
remember I set the settle threshold to
point three pixels so a new exposure
will not begin until this criteria is
met
I can also introduce an additional delay
after the dither
if I need to allow for some extra time
for settling or tighten up the settling
threshold parameter some experimentation
with your particular system will be
necessary to get the optimum results in
your environment as you can see here in
this 20 minute narrowband exposure I
have good round stars with no trailing
or elongation perfect just what I want
now the dealer operation has completed
and we begin the next exposure in our
series we are well on our way to a
collection of nice clean subs and
hopefully another deep-sky masterpiece